## Glossary

**Verantwortlichkeit:** Handle, wenn es erforderlich ist; befolge, was Du vereinbart hast und behalte die gesamte Organisation im Blick. **Vereinbarung**: eine (gemeinsam) beschlossene Richtline, oder ein Prozess oder Protokoll, um den Wertfluss in der Organisation zu gestalten. **Kreis**: eine *gleichgestellte*, *teilautonome* und *selbstverwaltete* Gruppe, die gemeinsam auf einen *Treiber* reagiert. **Concern**: An opinion that doing something might impede – or miss an opportunity to improve – flow of value to an organizational *driver*. **Konsent**: Handle nur, wenn es dagegen keine Einwände gibt. **Continuous Improvement**: Change incrementally to accommodate steady empirical learning. **Deliverable**: Something which is provided as a result of an *agreement* in response to a *driver*. *Deliverables* include products, raw materials, services, experiences and transformations. **Doing the Work** (Operations): People doing what needs to be done, guided by coordination and *governance*. **Domain**: A distinct area of influence, activity and decision making within an *organization*. **Driver**: A driver is a person’s or a group's motive for responding to a specific situation. **Effectiveness**: Devote time only to what brings you closer towards achieving your objectives. **Empiricism**: Test all assumptions through experiments, continuous revision and falsification. **Equivalence**: Involve people in making and evolving decisions that affect them. **Governance**: Continuously deciding what to do to achieve objectives, and setting constraints on how and when things will be done. **Logbook**: A (digital) system to store all information relevant for running an *organization* and its teams. **Objection**: A reason why doing something stands in the way of (more) effective response to a *driver*. **Peer Domain**: Two peer *domains* are contained within the same immediate *superdomain*, and may be overlapping. **Organization**: A group of people collaborating towards a shared objective (*driver*).

* * *

## Glossary (cont.)

**Peer Drivers**: Two *drivers* existing as a direct consequence of a response to the same *superdriver*, are called peer drivers. **Pattern**: A template for successfully navigating a specific context. **Primary Driver**: The driver that defines a *domain* is called the primary driver of that domain. **Principle**: A guideline for behavior. **Role**: A set of constraints for how an individual can account for a *domain*. **Self-Governance**: People governing themselves within the constraints of a domain. **Self-Organization**: People coordinating work within constraints defined through *governance*. **Semi-Autonomy**: People with autonomy to create *value*, limited by the constraints of their *domain*. **Strategy**: A high level approach how people will create value to successfully account for a *domain*. **Subdomain**: A domain that is fully nested within another domain. **Subdriver**: A subdriver arises as a consequence of people responding to another driver (the *superdriver*) and are necessary to address to respond to the superdriver. **Superdriver**: see *subdriver*. **Superdomain**: A *domain* that fully contains another domain. **Transparency**: Make all information accessible to everyone in an organization, unless there is a reason for confidentiality. **Value**: The importance, worth or usefulness of something in relation to a *driver*. **Waste**: Anything not necessary for - or standing in the way of - effective response of a *driver*.